.\" Man page for NotTheNet
.\" Generated for NotTheNet 2026.04.24-18
.\"
.TH NOTTHENET 1 "May 2026" "NotTheNet 2026.04.24-18" "Malware Analysis Tools"

.SH NAME
notthenet \- fake internet simulator for malware analysis

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notthenet
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-nogui\fR]
[\fB\-\-preflight\fR]
[\fB\-\-loglevel\fR \fILEVEL\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B notthenet
is a fake internet simulator designed for use in isolated malware analysis
environments. It starts 27 fake network services (DNS, DoT, HTTP/S, SMTP/S, POP3/S,
IMAP/S, FTP, NTP, TFTP, IRC, IRCS, Telnet, SOCKS5, VNC, RDP, SMB,
MySQL, MSSQL, Redis, LDAP, ICMP, and TCP/UDP catch-all) that respond
convincingly to connections from malware under analysis, making the
malware believe it has internet access.

.PP
NotTheNet automatically manages
.BR iptables (8)
NAT REDIRECT rules to funnel all outbound TCP traffic to its fake services,
eliminating the DNS race conditions and socket leak problems common in
INetSim and FakeNet-NG.

.PP
A Tkinter GUI is provided for configuration and live log monitoring.
A headless CLI mode is available for automated pipelines and servers
without a display.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to the JSON configuration file.
Defaults to
.I config.json
in the current working directory.

.TP
.BR \-\-nogui
Run in headless (CLI) mode without starting the graphical interface.
All output is written to stdout and the log file.
.B SIGINT
(Ctrl+C) or
.B SIGTERM
triggers a clean shutdown with iptables rule restoration.

.TP
.BR \-\-preflight
Run local preflight checks and exit without launching the GUI or services.
This validates stealth-related configuration, certificates, network/interface
readiness, port conflicts, and hardening prerequisites.

.TP
.BR \-\-loglevel " " \fILEVEL\fR
Override the log level set in the configuration file.
Valid values:
.BR DEBUG ", " INFO ", " WARNING ", " ERROR .
Default:
.IR INFO .

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a brief help message and exit.

.SH SERVICES

NotTheNet provides the following fake services:

.TP
.B DNS (port 53, UDP+TCP)
Resolves every query to the configured
.I redirect_ip
address. Handles A, AAAA, PTR, MX, NS, TXT, and CNAME record types.
Per-hostname overrides are configurable.

.TP
.B HTTP (port 80, TCP)
Returns a configurable HTTP response (default: 200 OK) to every request,
regardless of method or path.

.TP
.B HTTPS (port 443, TCP)
As HTTP, wrapped in TLS 1.2+ with ECDHE+AEAD cipher suites.
A self-signed RSA-4096 certificate is generated automatically if absent.

.TP
.B SMTP (port 25, TCP)
Accepts ESMTP connections and optionally archives received emails to
.I logs/emails/
using UUID-based filenames (maximum 5 MB per message, 100 MB total).

.TP
.B DoT — DNS-over-TLS (port 853, TCP+TLS)
Identical resolver logic to the plain DNS service, wrapped in TLS.
Intercepts malware that encrypts DNS queries to evade inspection.

.TP
.B SMTPS (port 465, TCP+TLS)
As SMTP, wrapped in TLS. Accepts any credentials; optionally archives
received emails.

.TP
.B POP3 (port 110, TCP)
Presents an empty mailbox; accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B POP3S (port 995, TCP+TLS)
As POP3, wrapped in TLS.

.TP
.B IMAP (port 143, TCP)
Presents an empty INBOX (IMAP4rev1 subset); accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B IMAPS (port 993, TCP+TLS)
As IMAP, wrapped in TLS.

.TP
.B FTP (port 21, TCP)
Accepts connections and file uploads. Saves uploads to
.I logs/ftp_uploads/
using UUID-based filenames. PASV only; PORT (active mode) is disabled.

.TP
.B NTP (port 123, UDP)
Returns a plausible NTP response with the current system time.

.TP
.B TFTP (port 69, UDP)
Accepts TFTP read and write requests; serves a stub file or discards
uploads.

.TP
.B IRC (port 6667, TCP)
Presents a minimal IRC server; accepts NICK/USER/JOIN/PRIVMSG so
IRC-based C2 bots register and stay connected.

.TP
.B IRCS — IRC-over-TLS (port 6697, TCP+TLS)
As IRC, wrapped in TLS.

.TP
.B Telnet (port 23, TCP)
Presents a login prompt; accepts any credentials and echoes a shell-like
banner.

.TP
.B SOCKS5 (port 1080, TCP)
Completes the SOCKS5 handshake so proxy-aware malware believes it has
a working SOCKS proxy.

.TP
.B ICMP Responder
Replies to ICMP echo requests (ping). Keeps alive-checking malware
from looping or switching C2 channels.

.TP
.B MySQL (port 3306, TCP)
Returns a MySQL server greeting; accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B MSSQL (port 1433, TCP)
Returns a TDS pre-login response; accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B RDP (port 3389, TCP)
Returns an RDP negotiation response so RDP-probing malware advances past
the connection phase.

.TP
.B SMB (port 445, TCP)
Handles SMBv1 NEGOTIATE (including EternalBlue TRANS2 probes) and
returns STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED for SMBv2/3. Worms mark the host as
reached-but-not-vulnerable and continue their subnet scan.

.TP
.B VNC (port 5900, TCP)
Completes the RFB protocol handshake; accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B Redis (port 6379, TCP)
Returns a Redis inline response to PING and INFO commands.

.TP
.B LDAP (port 389, TCP)
Returns a minimal LDAP bind response; accepts any credentials.

.TP
.B TCP Catch-All (port 9999, TCP)
Receives all TCP connections redirected by iptables from ports not
handled by named services. Auto-detects protocol (HTTP, TLS, SSH, SMTP,
FTP, IRC, SOCKS, RDP, SMB, MySQL, DNS) and responds accordingly.

.TP
.B UDP Catch-All (port 9998, UDP)
Optional UDP drain service.

.SH CONFIGURATION

All settings are stored in a JSON file (default:
.IR config.json ).
The configuration is divided into sections, one per service, plus a
.I general
section for global settings.

.PP
Key fields:

.TP
.B general.bind_ip
IP address all services listen on.
.B 0.0.0.0
for all interfaces (default).

.TP
.B general.redirect_ip
IP address returned by DNS for all queries.
Should be
.B 127.0.0.1
for loopback mode or the host IP for gateway mode.

.TP
.B general.interface
Network interface for iptables rule application.
.B IMPORTANT:
set this to an isolated interface, not a real internet-connected adapter.

.TP
.B general.auto_iptables
Boolean.
If
.BR true ,
apply and remove iptables NAT REDIRECT rules automatically.

.TP
.B general.iptables_mode
.B loopback
(default): applies rules to the OUTPUT chain (local traffic only).
.B gateway :
applies rules to the PREROUTING chain (intercept traffic from other hosts).

.PP
See
.B docs/configuration.md
for the complete configuration reference.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I config.json
Default configuration file.

.TP
.I certs/server.crt
TLS certificate (auto-generated RSA-4096, self-signed).

.TP
.I certs/server.key
TLS private key (mode 0600).

.TP
.I logs/notthenet.log
Rotating log file (10 MB × 5 backups).

.TP
.I logs/emails/
Directory for captured SMTP emails (.eml files, UUID names).

.TP
.I logs/ftp_uploads/
Directory for captured FTP uploads (.bin files, UUID names).

.TP
.I /tmp/notthenet_iptables_save.rules
Snapshot of iptables rules taken before NotTheNet applies its own rules.
Restored on clean shutdown.

.SH SECURITY

.B Privilege model:
NotTheNet starts as root to bind privileged ports and apply iptables rules.
After all ports are bound, it drops privileges to
.I nobody:nogroup
using
.BR setgroups (2),
.BR setgid (2),
and
.BR setuid (2).

.PP
.B Log injection prevention:
All untrusted input (hostnames, paths, IP addresses, email content, FTP
commands) is sanitised before logging. ANSI escape sequences and ASCII
control characters are stripped or replaced.

.PP
.B No shell injection:
All
.BR subprocess (3)
calls use list arguments with
.BR shell=False .
No user-controlled data is ever passed to a shell.

.PP
.B Disk exhaustion protection:
Uploaded files and captured emails are subject to per-file and total
directory size caps.

.PP
.B TLS hardening:
SSLv2, SSLv3, TLS 1.0, and TLS 1.1 are disabled. Only ECDHE+AEAD cipher
suites are accepted.

.PP
See
.B SECURITY.md
and
.B docs/security-hardening.md
for the full security policy.

.SH EXAMPLES

Launch the GUI with the default config:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo notthenet
.RE
.fi

.PP
Headless mode with debug logging:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo notthenet \-\-nogui \-\-loglevel DEBUG
.RE
.fi

.PP
Use a specific config for a banking trojan analysis session:
.PP
.nf
.RS
sudo notthenet \-\-config configs/banking.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Verify DNS is working after start:
.PP
.nf
.RS
dig @127.0.0.1 evil\-c2\-server.com A +short
.RE
.fi

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

Exit codes:

.TP
.B 0
Clean shutdown (SIGTERM or SIGINT received in headless mode).

.TP
.B 1
Failed to start (configuration error or all services failed to bind).
Check
.I logs/notthenet.log
for details.

.SH BUGS

Report bugs at:
.B https://github.com/retr0verride/NotTheNet/issues

Report security vulnerabilities privately via GitHub Security Advisories:
.B https://github.com/retr0verride/NotTheNet/security/advisories

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iptables (8),
.BR iptables\-save (8),
.BR iptables\-restore (8),
.BR dig (1),
.BR nc (1),
.BR ss (8)

.SH AUTHORS
NotTheNet Contributors.
See
.B https://github.com/retr0verride/NotTheNet

.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See the
.B LICENSE
file in the project root.
